lifting over to dr. Chris man Pelican
who has the latest research the problem
that lots of us have with lifting
weights is that there's so much
conflicting advice out there about
exactly how much weight to lift so
there's an old weightlifting adage that
goes Oh heavy Oh go home but recent
headlines suggest that in fact lifting
lighter weights might be just as
effective so what's the truth
the answer comes from a study published
last year from McMaster University in
Canada forty-nine weight trainers were
split into two groups one half lifting
heavy weights and the other lighter ones
the other key difference was the number
of repetitions or reps each group
performed now when we lift weights
sooner or later no matter how heavy they
are we reach a point where we just can't
lift anymore and that's known as failure
[Music]
but it's not a judgment on your level of
effort technically speaking failure is
to do with motor units groups of muscle
fibers controlled by a nerve that make
our muscles contract when we lift
weights
lots of motor units are activated and as
they get tired more need to be used
eventually all our motor units become
exhausted and that's when we can't lift
anymore
now with heavy weights you might reach
failure after just a few reps with
lighter weights you'll still get there
just might take a bit longer the key
thing about the master study was that
because both groups lifted to the point
of failure they could be compared so the
team found that the group using the
lighter weights actually gained as much
strength as the heavier weight group now
that doesn't mean you always need to
lift to failure for most of us the
crucial thing is that you do need to
push your muscles a little bit beyond
what's easy if you want to use a lighter
weight that's fine but you're gonna have
to do more reps
the important thing is to have a
training program that's safe so if you
haven't done weights before make sure
you take instruction from a suitably
qualified person and if you're gonna go
really heavy make sure you get medical
advice before you start so for most of
us unless you're gonna be a bodybuilder
or a power lifter don't worry too much
about weights versus reps the important
thing is just to push yourself a little
bit out of your comfort zone
[Music]
you